oak_attestation_verification_cli/README.md, before:

# Oak Attestation Verification CLI

CLI tool used to verify collected evidence and endorsements from attestations
against a set of reference values.

## Instructions

The tool requires paths to binary protobuf files for both the collected
attestation and the reference values.

Run with:

```sh
bazel run //oak_attestation_verification_cli:oak_attestation_verification_cli -- --attestation=<PATH_TO_COLLECTED_ATTESTATION> --reference-values=<PATH_TO_REFERENCE_VALUES>
```

Where:

- `<PATH_TO_COLLECTED_ATTESTATION>` is the path to a binary protobuf file
  containing `oak.attestation.v1.CollectedAttestation`.
- `<PATH_TO_REFERENCE_VALUES>` is the path to a binary protobuf file containing
  `oak.attestation.v1.ReferenceValuesCollection`.

## Examples

### Certificate-Based Attestation

An end-to-end example of certificate-based attestation is available in the
[`examples/certificate_based`](./examples/certificate_based) directory.

The example generates a `CollectedAttestation` and a `ReferenceValuesCollection`
and then runs the verification tool on them.

To run the example and see a sample verification report, execute the following
script from the root of the repository:

```sh
./oak_attestation_verification_cli/examples/certificate_based/report.sh
```

## Supported Attestation Types

The tool currently supports the following attestation verification flows:

- **Confidential Space:** For verifying attestations originating from Google
  Cloud Confidential Space environments.
- **Certificate-Based:** For verifying attestations that are endorsed by a
  certificate chain.

## Understanding the Inputs

- **Collected Attestation:** This file contains the evidence and endorsements
  gathered from the untrusted execution environment. It includes cryptographic
  measurements, certificates, and proofs generated during the attestation
  process. This file is typically generated by a client application that
  communicates with an attested service. The client receives the attestation
  evidence from the service and saves it. An example of this can be seen in the
  [Oak GCP Echo client](../oak_gcp/examples/echo/client/src/main.rs), which has
  a command-line flag to save the server's evidence to a file.
- **Reference Values:** This file defines the "golden" values that the collected
  attestation is compared against. It represents the expectations of a trusted
  and secure environment, containing items like root certificates and expected
  measurement values. The user of the verification tool is responsible for
  creating this file based on the expected properties of the environment they
  are verifying. This involves compiling the reference values into the
  `oak.attestation.v1.ReferenceValuesCollection` binary protobuf format.

## Interpreting the Output

The tool outputs a human-readable report detailing the verification steps and
their outcomes, using emojis to indicate the status of each check (e.g., ✅ for
success, ❌ for failure).

A failure at any step indicates a potential security risk. For example:

- A failure in **certificate validation** may mean that an endorsement cannot be
  trusted because its signing key is not properly certified.
- A failure in **session binding verification** could indicate that the secure
  session is vulnerable to a man-in-the-middle attack.

Commit message:

Implement a generator for Confidential Space attestations / reference values.
Bug: 419209669
Change-Id: Iaecd678eaac583bb0c0fa2c2b49d332d96ac2fef

oak_attestation_verification_cli/README.md, after:

# Oak Attestation Verification CLI

CLI tool used to verify collected evidence and endorsements from attestations
against a set of reference values.

## Instructions

The tool requires paths to binary protobuf files for both the collected
attestation and the reference values.

Run with:

```sh
bazel run //oak_attestation_verification_cli:oak_attestation_verification_cli -- --attestation=<PATH_TO_COLLECTED_ATTESTATION> --reference-values=<PATH_TO_REFERENCE_VALUES>
```

Where:

- `<PATH_TO_COLLECTED_ATTESTATION>` is the path to a binary protobuf file
  containing `oak.attestation.v1.CollectedAttestation`.
- `<PATH_TO_REFERENCE_VALUES>` is the path to a binary protobuf file containing
  `oak.attestation.v1.ReferenceValuesCollection`.

## Examples

### Confidential Space Attestation

An end-to-end example of Confidential Space attestation is available in the
[`examples/confidential_space`](./examples/confidential_space) directory.

The example generates a `CollectedAttestation` and a `ReferenceValuesCollection`
and then runs the verification tool on them.

To run the example and see a sample verification report, execute the following
command from the root of the repository:

```sh
bazel build //oak_attestation_verification_cli/examples/confidential_space:report && cat bazel-bin/oak_attestation_verification_cli/examples/confidential_space/report.txt
```

### Certificate-Based Attestation

An end-to-end example of certificate-based attestation is available in the
[`examples/certificate_based`](./examples/certificate_based) directory.

The example generates a `CollectedAttestation` and a `ReferenceValuesCollection`
and then runs the verification tool on them.

To run the example and see a sample verification report, execute the following
command from the root of the repository:

```sh
bazel build //oak_attestation_verification_cli/examples/certificate_based:report && cat bazel-bin/oak_attestation_verification_cli/examples/certificate_based/report.txt
```

## Supported Attestation Types

The tool currently supports the following attestation verification flows:

- **Confidential Space:** For verifying attestations originating from Google
  Cloud Confidential Space environments.
- **Certificate-Based:** For verifying attestations that are endorsed by a
  certificate chain.

## Understanding the Inputs

- **Collected Attestation:** This file contains the evidence and endorsements
  gathered from the untrusted execution environment. It includes cryptographic
  measurements, certificates, and proofs generated during the attestation
  process. This file is typically generated by a client application that
  communicates with an attested service. The client receives the attestation
  evidence from the service and saves it. An example of this can be seen in the
  [Oak GCP Echo client](../oak_gcp/examples/echo/client/src/main.rs), which has
  a command-line flag to save the server's evidence to a file.
- **Reference Values:** This file defines the "golden" values that the collected
  attestation is compared against. It represents the expectations of a trusted
  and secure environment, containing items like root certificates and expected
  measurement values. The user of the verification tool is responsible for
  creating this file based on the expected properties of the environment they
  are verifying. This involves compiling the reference values into the
  `oak.attestation.v1.ReferenceValuesCollection` binary protobuf format.

## Interpreting the Output

The tool outputs a human-readable report detailing the verification steps and
their outcomes, using emojis to indicate the status of each check (e.g., ✅ for
success, ❌ for failure).

A failure at any step indicates a potential security risk. For example:

- A failure in **certificate validation** may mean that an endorsement cannot be
  trusted because its signing key is not properly certified.
- A failure in **session binding verification** could indicate that the secure
  session is vulnerable to a man-in-the-middle attack.
