mcp_proxy/README.md, before:

# mcp_proxy

> [!CAUTION] Experimental code, not ready for production use.

This is an HTTP proxy that intercepts responses from a target server and
verifies if they have been cryptographically endorsed using `cosign` and stored
in an OCI-compliant endorsement repository.

## Features

- Intercepts HTTP responses and calculates their SHA256 digest (acting as the
  "subject").
- Fetches the OCI `index.json` from a configurable `http_index_prefix`.
- Locates associated endorsement entries in the `index.json` based on the
  subject digest and `tr.type: "endorsement"` annotation.
- Caches both subject data and endorsement bundles locally in `/tmp/mcp_proxy`
  to avoid redundant network requests.
- Performs cryptographic signature verification of the endorsement bundle
  against the subject using
  [`cosign verify-blob`](https://docs.sigstore.dev/cosign/verifying/verify/#keyless-verification-using-openid-connect).
- Enforces identity verification by checking the `cosign_identity` and
  `cosign_oidc_issuer` specified in the configuration.
- If no valid endorsement is found, or if verification fails, the proxy returns
  an `HTTP 403 Forbidden` error to the client, along with instructions on how to
  endorse the content.

## Configuration

The proxy requires a `config.toml` file for its settings.

**Example `config.toml`:**

```toml
target_base_url = "http://localhost:8080/target_server"

[[filter]]
method = "your_rpc_method" # The MCP method to filter and verify
cosign_identity = "your_email@example.com" # Expected email identity of the endorser
cosign_oidc_issuer = "https://accounts.google.com" # OIDC issuer (e.g., for GitHub actions or Google accounts)
http_index_prefix = "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/your_org/your_repo/refs/heads/main/" # URL to the root of your OCI endorsement repository
```

## Usage

```bash
# Ensure cosign is installed and in your PATH
# go install github.com/sigstore/cosign/cmd/cosign@latest

bazel run mcp_proxy -- --config=$PWD/mcp_proxy/config.toml
```

The proxy will start on `http://localhost:8080` (or as configured). All requests
to this proxy that match a filter's `method` will trigger endorsement
verification.

From Gemini CLI, run `/mcp refresh` and `/mcp desc`.

## Dependencies

- [Cosign](https://docs.sigstore.dev/cosign/overview/) (must be installed and
  available in your system's PATH).

Commit message:

Use a single JSON file for the index instead of just a URL prefix
Define a custom JSON schema to represent an index pointing to individual endorsements, and collect some metadata there for efficient lookups.

This allows creating a CAS that is colocated with the repo hosting the index.json file, and also additional ones pointing to external location if needed in the future.

Fix various instructions to show how to endorse and verify blobs.

Bug: 462402603

Change-Id: Ic64f1810a92fabbecbc50015ca72428f6a6a6964

mcp_proxy/README.md, after:

# mcp_proxy

> [!CAUTION] Experimental code, not ready for production use.

This is an HTTP proxy that intercepts responses from a target server and
verifies if they have been cryptographically endorsed using `cosign` and stored
in an OCI-compliant endorsement repository.

## Features

- Intercepts HTTP responses and calculates their SHA256 digest (acting as the
  "subject").
- Fetches the custom `index.json` from a configurable `endorsement_index_url`.
- Locates associated endorsement entries in the `index.json` based on the
  subject digest and `tr.type: "endorsement"` annotation.
- Caches both subject data and endorsement bundles locally in `/tmp/mcp_proxy`
  to avoid redundant network requests.
- Performs cryptographic signature verification of the endorsement bundle
  against the subject using
  [`cosign verify-blob`](https://docs.sigstore.dev/cosign/verifying/verify/#keyless-verification-using-openid-connect).
- Enforces identity verification by checking the `cosign_identity` and
  `cosign_oidc_issuer` specified in the configuration.
- If no valid endorsement is found, or if verification fails, the proxy returns
  an `HTTP 403 Forbidden` error to the client, along with instructions on how to
  endorse the content.

## Configuration

The proxy requires a `config.toml` file for its settings.

**Example `config.toml`:**

```toml
target_mcp_server_url = "http://localhost:8080/target_server"

[[filter]]
method = "your_rpc_method" # The MCP method to filter and verify
cosign_identity = "your_email@example.com" # Expected email identity of the endorser
cosign_oidc_issuer = "https://accounts.google.com" # OIDC issuer (e.g., for GitHub actions or Google accounts)
endorsement_index_url = "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/your_org/your_repo/refs/heads/main/index.json" # URL to your custom endorsement index.json
```

## Usage

```bash
# Ensure cosign is installed and in your PATH
# go install github.com/sigstore/cosign/cmd/cosign@latest

bazel run mcp_proxy -- --config=$PWD/mcp_proxy/config.toml
```

The proxy will start on `http://localhost:8080` (or as configured). All requests
to this proxy that match a filter's `method` will trigger endorsement
verification.

From Gemini CLI, run `/mcp refresh` and `/mcp desc`.

If the tool configuration of the MCP server was not endorsed according to the
policy set in the config, the client will print a message similar to the
following:

```text
✕ Error discovering tools from demo-proxy: Error POSTing to endpoint (HTTP 403): Endorsement verification failed for subject digest:
  sha256:3cfe8b08e6c9b30aaba15962630494e9ec143c7422ee7bee2de70874aa48dac2.
  Error: no endorsements found for subject HexDigest { psha2: "", sha1: "", sha2_256: "3cfe8b08e6c9b30aaba15962630494e9ec143c7422ee7bee2de70874aa48dac2", sha2_512: "", sha3_512: "", sha3_384: "",
  sha3_256: "", sha3_224: "", sha2_384: "" }

  The response from the server was not endorsed by the expected identity (Some("tiziano88@gmail.com")).

  To endorse this content, run the endorsement tool on the saved subject file:
  doremint blob endorse --file="/tmp/mcp_proxy/sha256:3cfe8b08e6c9b30aaba15962630494e9ec143c7422ee7bee2de70874aa48dac2" --repository=<path_to_repo> --valid-for=1d
  --claims="https://github.com/project-oak/oak/blob/main/docs/tr/claim/94503.md"
```

## Dependencies

- [Cosign](https://docs.sigstore.dev/cosign/overview/) (must be installed and
  available in your system's PATH).
