# Oak Development

### Prerequisites

We use Docker to install the base dependencies that need to exist at the system
level, e.g. the Intel SGX SDK and the Rust compiler; these steps are detailed in
[`Dockerfile`](/Dockerfile). See
https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/builder/ for more information.

Inside Docker, we use Bazel to version, install and build dependencies and our
own code. Dependencies are listed in [`WORKSPACE`](/WORKSPACE). See
https://docs.bazel.build/versions/master/external.html for more information.

- Docker: https://docs.docker.com/install
- Bazel: https://docs.bazel.build/versions/master/install.html
- Rust: https://rustup.rs/
  - `curl https://sh.rustup.rs -sSf > /tmp/rustup`
  - `less /tmp/rustup` (inspect downloaded script before running it)
  - `sh /tmp/rustup` (follow on-screen instructions -- option 1 is fine to start
    with)
  - add `source $HOME/.cargo/env` to your shell init script (e.g. `.bashrc` or
    `.zshrc`)
  - `rustup target add wasm32-unknown-unknown`

[Step by step instructions for installing Oak on Ubuntu 18.04](INSTALL.md) shows
how to install the prerequisites starting off with a clean Ubuntu install. Note
the server runs in the Docker container but the examples run on the host
machine. This means you might be missing other dependencies like the `protoc`
protocol compiler.

### Run Server

The following command builds and runs an Oak Server instance.

`./scripts/docker_run ./scripts/run_server`

### Run Development Server

In addition to the Oak Server, we provide a "development" version of the server.
It shares the same runtime as the Docker implementation, but it's built using
clang and it's a very lightweight wrapper around a simple gRPC client. It
doesn't use Docker or any of the Asylo toolchains and it does not create an
enclave.

As such, it can be used when working on the runtime, the client code or the
module code as it can help with enabling a faster iteration.

The following command builds and runs an Oak Development Server:

`./scripts/run_server_dev`

As this compiles using clang on your local machine, it can be easily build in
debug mode, as well as use any of the Sanitizers clang supports (e.g. asan, tsan
etc.). Details about available sanitizers can be found in the
[`.bazelrc`](/.bazelrc) file.

The following command builds and run Oak Local Server with tsan enabled. Replace
`tsan` with other configurations for different sanitisers.

`bazel build --config=tsan //oak/server/dev:oak`

### Run Client

The following command (run in a separate terminal) compiles an example module
from Rust to WebAssembly, and sends it to the Oak Server running on the same
machine. It works with both Servers (Docker and Dev).

`./examples/hello_world/run`
